All right here's our next example.
Example five.
Again it's kind of the same same circuit as the previous example.
It's also in the same time limit so really after a long time Curtis exists in only one branch of the
circuit at this long time if the battery here is 10 volts What's the voltage now across the 100 micro
Feraud capacitor across this one over here.
Well we're going to proceed using a similar approach.
Now you've got to be careful you might be tempted to say 10.
Remember it is 10 across this branch.
It was also 10 across this capacitor.
But you've got to be a little bit more careful here.
So let's first start by we want to know the voltage across this capacitor Well we should probably do
maybe a loop that includes this capacitor so we can do a loop around this red and let's go around in
the clockwise fashion.
We're going to start down here.
Always doing that.
I apologize.
We're going to start down here at the bottom point A and again go in the clockwise direction.
So the first thing I encounter is a voltage of this battery which is 10 in this case and it's right
away going to rate plus 10.
Now the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to encounter this twenty five ohm resistor.
And for now I'm going to say that there's a current flowing through here.
Now part of that current is going to continue along this branch and call this two part of the current
might flow down here.
One.
All right.
So let's go ahead and so now we get minus 525 multiplied by the current.
Next thing we have now is the voltage across this capacitor minus the voltage across that capacitor
minus the 300 ohms multiply by the current and that branch will simplify this in a minute.
It might be one step ahead of me.
And then the last step over here is the voltage drop across the 100 ohm resistor and that is also has
to be the current.
Even though we've split it up here because of the junction here at the top it's going to then recombine
at the bottom junction and you have to have the current flowing through that 100 ohm resistor.
All right you go back to where I start you some all the potential differences you have to have zero.
Now again the simplification comes from the long time.
And if it's a long time you know that the current one must be equal to zero.
So that means you could simplify this term.
All right.
You can combine both of those.
They both have the current i basically the 5:25 and the 100 are in series with each other.
So this equation over here simply gets 10 minus 625 multiplied by the current.
And let me bring the voltage across that capacitor VC over here.
On the other side.
All right so here's our expression.
So you see it's different from the previous case because now we also have a voltage drop across both
of these resistors that we have to worry about.
So in order to kind of solve for this what is the voltage across that capacitor you need to know what
the current AI is in order to do that.
Well we're going to do now is we're going to do another loop except this time we're going to go around
this outside bend because basically if there is no current flowing down the center branch here that
means that the current Aitu must be equal to the current.
I think that is basically our junction rule applied to this junction because after a long time there
is no current flowing through that branch.
So you have to have this requirement.
So basically all we have out here is a one big loop and it's one circuit where all the three resistors
are essentially in series with each other.
OK.
So all you have to do now is just do another loop and calculate what that current is.
So let me do that one over here the first thing I encounter is that battery.
Next thing I encounter again I'm going to have this minus 525 multiplied by the current I minus the
1500 ohm resistor multiplied by the current of the voltage drop across here and then minus 100 times
the current.
I said that if I eventually go back to point A that there must be equal to zero.
OK.
So the current I can calculate now simply 10 divided by 525 basically the equivalent resistance of these
three in series with each other.
If the 100 plus 100 or so substitute that in the calculator are what you should get is 4.7 times tend
of the negative 3 amps.
Now you go back and you substitute that into this equation over here so you get 10 minus 625 multiplied
by the current.
Now which I know 4.7 times ten to the minus three.
That gives me the voltage across my capacitor.
So it has to be less than 10 and we could really got rid of that choice right away.
So the voltage across the capacitor is just substituting in the calculator now and he should get something
like 7.0 or six volts go so a correct answer for this one here is choice D.
And now when you get from a little bit of circuit analysis again and using the fact that we know in
the long time limit that the outside branch and this middle branch here can't have any current flowing
through it can have a good problem.
Hopefully you've got that one start kind of understanding how to deal with these types of problems.
Now.